docs: document trusted boot (#2612)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/trusted-boot/trusted-boot.md

Reviewer: Terrific, extremely helpful overview 😃

---
sidebar_label: "Trusted Boot"
title: "Trusted Boot"
description: "Learn about Trusted Boot."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["edge"]
---

Trusted Boot is a security feature supported by Palette Edge running on Edge devices with supported hardware and
firmware. Trusted Boot consists of the following security measures:

> - Full disk encryption (FDE): Encryption of the entire contents of a disk drive, including the operating system, system

Reviewer 2: unfortunately this is not technically correct. we dont encrypt the entire disk.  in particular we dont encrypt the  operating system. we encrypt all sensitive user data (persistent partition) securely, with a minimalistic boot image (UKI) that is immutable and cannot be tampered with . The TPM releases the key for decrypting the persistent data based off the measurements kept during boot.

Author: If it's not full disk encryption, maybe we shouldn't call it full disk encryption? Maybe persistent disk encryption? I feel like calling it full disk encryption would make it confusing to users

Reviewer 2: can you take a look at perhaps explaining that FDE is an industry term?

  files, and user data. The purpose of FDE is to protect data stored on the disk from unauthorized access in the event
  of theft or loss of the device.
- Secure boot: A security measure that ensures only properly signed and authenticated software is allowed to operate
  during the boot process of a device.
- Measured boot. A security feature that works by measures each component of the boot process and recording these
  measurements in a
  [Trusted Platform Module (TPM)](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/business/enterprise-computers/resources/trusted-platform-module.html),
  which can be used for later analysis.

Together, these measures allows Trusted Boot to ensure the authenticity of the boot processes that are allowed to run on
your Edge device. In addition, the measurements stored in the TPM can be provided to third parties to prove that your

> boot process is secure and unaltered. In the event that your Edge device is stolen or lost, FDE ensures that its content

Reviewer 2: actually, in the event the device is stolen or lost, trusted boot + encryption ensures that it is very difficult to steal the data. This is because the thief can't alter the boot process (which also determines who the users etc. are), meaning they can't inject e.g. a new root user and then decrypt the drive. that's because the TPM won't release the key for the encrypted portion if the UKI is tampered with, and the key is only stored inside the TPM.
The end result is kind of similar to what you wrote, but it's the combination of encryption and TB that prevents the theft of data.

is not accessible to those without the key used to encrypt it.

## Why Do You Need Trusted Boot?

Edge devices are often deployed in locations with minimal security and high traffic. such as restaurants and coffee

> shops, and are susceptible physical attacks. If an attacker is able to inject malware into the Edge host through a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
shops, and are susceptible to physical attacks. If an attacker is able to inject malware into the Edge host through a
```

physical attack, it has the potential to seriously compromise the security of your systems.

> Trusted Boot allows you to be confident that all software that is allowed to run on your Edge hosts are authenticated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Trusted Boot allows you to be confident that all software that is allowed to run on your Edge hosts is authenticated
```

> software verified through cryptographic signatures. In addition, you may need provide evidence of the integrity of your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
software verified through cryptographic signatures. In addition, you may need to provide evidence of the integrity of your
```

boot processes to meet certain compliance requirements. The Measured Boot aspect of Trusted Boot allows you to provide
such evidence.

## Hardware and Firmware Requirements

> The following hardware and firmware requirements apply for devices that support Trusted Boot:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following hardware and firmware requirements apply to devices in order to support Trusted Boot:
```

  during the boot process of a device.
- Measured boot. A security feature that works by measuring each component of the boot process and recording these
  measurements in a
  [Trusted Platform Module (TPM)](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/business/enterprise-computers/resources/trusted-platform-module.html),
  which can be used for later analysis.

Together, these measures allow Trusted Boot to ensure the authenticity of the boot processes that are allowed to operate
on your Edge device. In addition, the measurements stored in the TPM can be provided to third parties to prove that your
boot process is secure and unaltered. Since only when the boot process can be verified does the TPM release the key to
decrypt the encrypted content, the sensitive data is not accessible in the case an Edge device is lost or stolen.

![Boot Process for Trusted Boot](/cluster_edge_trusted-boot_boot-process.webp)

## Why Do You Need Trusted Boot?

Edge devices are often deployed in locations with minimal security and high traffic, such as restaurants and coffee
shops, and are susceptible to physical attacks. If an attacker is able to inject malware into the Edge host through a

> physical attack, it has the potential to seriously compromise the security of your systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
physical attack, it has the potential to compromise the security of your operations.
```

release the key to decrypt the disk encryption if the boot process is tampered with, ensuring your user data remains
encrypted.

## Next Steps

To get started with Trusted Boot, we recommend you start by familiarizing yourself with the concepts related to Trusted
Boot, especially the keys used by Trusted Boot and how to manage them. In addition, Trusted Boot has additional hardware
requirements compared with Edge hosts that do not have workloads with Trusted Boot. You should ensure that you use Edge
hosts that meet the minimum hardware requirements.

- [Trusted Boot Keys](./keys/keys.md)
- [Key Management](./keys/key-management.md)
- [Hardware Requirements](../hardware-requirements.md#trusted-boot)

> After understanding the core concepts, you can proceed to generate the keys to be used by your Edge host. You need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After understanding the core concepts, you can proceed to generate the keys that will be used by your Edge host. You need to
```
A bit more active voice sounding :)

start by exporting the existing keys on your Edge host and then use those exported keys to generate new keys to be used
by Trusted Boot. You can generate keys using a self-signed certificate, or an existing Certificate Authority (CA).

- [Export Factory Keys](./keys/export-keys.md)
- [Generate Trusted Boot Keys](./keys/generate-keys.md)

With the keys ready, you can proceed to build the necessary Edge artifacts to install Palette on your Edge host and
provision your cluster. The EdgeForge process with Trusted Boot is similar to the EdgeForge process without Trusted

> Boot. We recommend you familiar with the EdgeForge workflow first before building Edge artifacts with Trusted Boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Boot. We recommend you become familiar with the EdgeForge workflow first before building Edge artifacts with Trusted Boot
```

Reviewer: Lenny if you want to call attention to this, you could even use an infobox if you want. Your call sir.
